Functions are fundamental part of JavaScript programming language. Every JavaScript developer should know how to work with them. This tutorial will teach you the basics of JavaScript functions. You will learn how to create functions and how to use parameters and arguments.
JavaScript Functions – All You Need to Know Part 2.

JavaScript Functions – All You Need to Know Part 3.

# The Basic
What are functions? One way to think about functions is as building blocks of programs. You can also think about them as a subprograms that are created with the purpose to do specific tasks. The main reason developers use functions is because they allow you to re-use chunks of code, without the need to write the code over and over again.

Let’s say you’ve just created a function with some code inside it. Now, when you want to execute the code inside that function all you need to do is to call that function. “Calling a function” is also called “invoking a function”. Another great thing on functions is that you can also pass values into them.

This means that even though the code inside the function remains the same what happens after calling the function can differ. What’s more, you call also pass another function as a value and then call that function you passed inside the function.

# Function declaration and function expression
In JavaScript, there are two ways to create functions. One is by using function declaration. The second is by using function expression. When you want to create a function using function declaration you start with function keyword, followed by the name of the function, followed by parenthesis with parameters and curly brackets with code to be executed.

When you define function using function declaration it will be hoisted. Put simply, you can call that function before you define it in your code. JavaScript will move the function declaration to the top of the scope during the runtime. When you run the code, the function is actually available before you call it.

